README.md, before:

 - **reminder/example: `kubectl port-forward service/grafana 3000:3000 -n istio-system`**
- **dev-ops software inspiration: https://github.com/itzr/developer-roadmap**
- **what tools do sysadmin use??**

*Investigate*
- service discovery mechanisms
- service registries 

# Learn by doing repo
# Frameworks
- GIS (Geographic Information System)

# Languages
- GraphQL API (querying)
- WASM (binary instruction format for a stack-based vm)

# Libraries
- TensorFlow (ml; dataflow & differentiable programming)

# API
## API Styles
### Gateway
- Kong
### Proxy
## API Communication Protocols
### RPC
- gRPC 
### HTTP
- REST
## Data Interchange Format
- JSON
- Protocol Buffers (https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf)
## Documentation
- Swagger

# Server Types
### Reverse Proxy
*sits in front of web servers and forwards client requests*
*increase security, performance, and reliability
- nginx

# Microservices
### Containers (Software as Infrastructure)
- Kubernetes: Deploy, scale, update & debug containerized applications 
- Docker: Compose a containerized applicaton
- Docker-Swarm: Container orchestration & Docker's native clustering engine
### Service Mesh
- Istio
- Kiali (Service Mesh Visualisation)

# Services
### Message Brokers
- RabbitMQ
### Search Engines
- ElasticSearch
### Language Models
- GPT-3
### Authentication
- OAuth2
### Proxy 
- Envoy (proxy and communication bus)
### Automation Server for Continuous Integration
- Jenkis (https://www.edureka.co/blog/what-is-jenkins/)

# Process Control
### Logging
- Graylog 
- Logstash 
- Use text log file and standard grep tool
### Debugging (testing hooks, log file analyzers, etc)
### Monitoring
- Prometheus
- Supervisor
- ELK Stack + Beats (ElasticSearch x LogStash x Kibana x Beats)

# Blockchain
- Interacting with Ethereum

# Testing
## Frontend (React)
- Jest
## Load Testing
- Locust (https://locust.io/; replicate millions of users)

# Infrastructure as a Service
- Google Compute Engine (GCE)

# Tools
### Checklists
- Checkists for tasks, stories and epics  (e.g. API, UI, etc) going into sprints
### Package Managers / Image Hub
- NPM (js)
- PIP (python)
- Helm (kubernetes)
- Docker Hub (docker)
- pecl (php)
### Secret 
- Vault (https://www.vaultproject.io)
### API 
- Postman
### Cloud (tools)
gcloud
gsutil

# DB
- Mongo (NoSQL)
- MySQL (SQL)

# Command Line
### Bash / Sh / Zsh
### General
- Scripting
- 'Starter-Scripts'

# Network Science
- Network Ports
- Bus
- OSI Model (Open Systems Interconnection)

# Cloud Storage
Google Cloud Storage

# Legacy
Symfony Flex

# General
Gateway vs Proxies (https://www.w3.org/Library.old/User/Using/Proxy.html)

# Debuggers
XDebug (php)

# No code software
- Bubble.io
- Webflow
- Integromat
- Zapier
- AirTable

# Interesting (from State of the Octoverse 2019)
### IOT
- Open Source Home Automation (https://github.com/home-assistant/core)
### Deployment
- Automate Deployments (Ansible; https://github.com/ansible/ansible)
### Frontend Compiler
- Build React Apps (Gatsby; https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby)
### Machine Learning
- ML Education (https://github.com/madewithml/basics)
- ML Platform (https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow)
- Natural Language Toolkit (https://github.com/nltk/nltk)
    - **GPT-3**
### Source Code Control
- Git History (https://github.com/pomber/git-history)
### Interactive Notebook
- Notebook (https://github.com/jupyter/notebook)

# Resources
- CLOUD NATIVE COMPUTING FOUNDATION: https://www.cncf.io/
- KATACODA: https://www.katacoda.com/

## Learning Opportunity Tasks
1. (current) Create a docker container with stack neccessary for querying the Ethereum blockchain
2. Write an alias for the docker command to enter a container (bash)
    -. https://askubuntu.com/questions/626458/can-i-pass-arguments-to-an-alias-command

Commit message:

custom zsh functions via osmyzsh

README.md, after:

 - **reminder/example: `kubectl port-forward service/grafana 3000:3000 -n istio-system`**
- **dev-ops software inspiration: https://github.com/itzr/developer-roadmap**
- **what tools do sysadmin use??**

*Investigate*
- service discovery mechanisms
- service registries 

# Learn by doing repo
# Frameworks
- GIS (Geographic Information System)

# Languages
- GraphQL API (querying)
- WASM (binary instruction format for a stack-based vm)

# Libraries
- TensorFlow (ml; dataflow & differentiable programming)

# API
## API Styles
### Gateway
- Kong
### Proxy
## API Communication Protocols
### RPC
- gRPC 
### HTTP
- REST
## Data Interchange Format
- JSON
- Protocol Buffers (https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf)
## Documentation
- Swagger

# Server Types
### Reverse Proxy
*sits in front of web servers and forwards client requests*
*increase security, performance, and reliability
- nginx

# Microservices
### Containers (Software as Infrastructure)
- Kubernetes: Deploy, scale, update & debug containerized applications 
- Docker: Compose a containerized applicaton
- Docker-Swarm: Container orchestration & Docker's native clustering engine
### Service Mesh
- Istio
- Kiali (Service Mesh Visualisation)

# Services
### Message Brokers
- RabbitMQ
### Search Engines
- ElasticSearch
### Language Models
- GPT-3
### Authentication
- OAuth2
### Proxy 
- Envoy (proxy and communication bus)
### Automation Server for Continuous Integration
- Jenkis (https://www.edureka.co/blog/what-is-jenkins/)

# Process Control
### Logging
- Graylog 
- Logstash 
- Use text log file and standard grep tool
### Debugging (testing hooks, log file analyzers, etc)
### Monitoring
- Prometheus
- Supervisor
- ELK Stack + Beats (ElasticSearch x LogStash x Kibana x Beats)
    - https://logz.io/blog/beats-tutorial/

# Blockchain
- Interacting with Ethereum

# Testing
## Frontend (React)
- Jest
## Load Testing
- Locust (https://locust.io/; replicate millions of users)

# Infrastructure as a Service
- Google Compute Engine (GCE)

# Tools
### Checklists
- Checkists for tasks, stories and epics  (e.g. API, UI, etc) going into sprints
### Package Managers / Image Hub
- NPM (js)
- PIP (python)
- Helm (kubernetes)
- Docker Hub (docker)
- pecl (php)
### Secret 
- Vault (https://www.vaultproject.io)
### API 
- Postman
### Cloud (tools)
gcloud
gsutil

# DB
- Mongo (NoSQL)
- MySQL (SQL)

# Command Line
### Bash / Sh / Zsh
### General
- Scripting
- 'Starter-Scripts'
- Using Variables, Parameters and Functions
- Ohmyzsh
- Zsh functions with arguments

# Network Science
- Network Ports
- Bus
- OSI Model (Open Systems Interconnection)

# Cloud Storage
Google Cloud Storage

# Legacy
Symfony Flex

# General
Gateway vs Proxies (https://www.w3.org/Library.old/User/Using/Proxy.html)

# Debuggers
XDebug (php)

# No code software
- Bubble.io
- Webflow
- Integromat
- Zapier
- AirTable

# Interesting (from State of the Octoverse 2019)
### IOT
- Open Source Home Automation (https://github.com/home-assistant/core)
### Deployment
- Automate Deployments (Ansible; https://github.com/ansible/ansible)
### Frontend Compiler
- Build React Apps (Gatsby; https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby)
### Machine Learning
- ML Education (https://github.com/madewithml/basics)
- ML Platform (https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow)
- Natural Language Toolkit (https://github.com/nltk/nltk)
    - **GPT-3**
### Source Code Control
- Git History (https://github.com/pomber/git-history)
### Interactive Notebook
- Notebook (https://github.com/jupyter/notebook)

# Resources
- CLOUD NATIVE COMPUTING FOUNDATION: https://www.cncf.io/
- KATACODA: https://www.katacoda.com/

## Learning Opportunity Tasks
1. (current) Create a docker container with stack neccessary for querying the Ethereum blockchain
2. Write an alias for the docker command to enter a container (bash)
    -. https://askubuntu.com/questions/626458/can-i-pass-arguments-to-an-alias-command
